<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="configuring-an-ipsec-host-to-host-vpn-with-psk-authentication-and-separate-data-and-control-planes-by-using-the-vpn-rhel-system-role_assembly_configuring-vpn-connections-with-ipsec-by-using-the-rhel-vpn-system-role">
   <title>Configuring an IPsec host-to-host VPN with PSK authentication and separate data and control planes by using the <codeph>vpn</codeph> RHEL system role</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/automating_system_administration_by_using_rhel_system_roles/assembly_preparing-a-control-node-and-managed-nodes-to-use-rhel-system-roles_automating-system-administration-by-using-rhel-system-roles"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">You have prepared the control node and the managed nodes</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The account you use to connect to the managed nodes has <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions for these nodes.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>Use the <codeph>vpn</codeph> RHEL system role to automate the process of creating an IPsec host-to-host VPN. To enhance security by minimizing the risk of control messages being intercepted or disrupted, configure separate connections for both the data traffic and the control traffic.</p>
         <p>A host-to-host VPN establishes a direct, secure, and encrypted connection between two devices, allowing applications to communicate safely over an insecure network, such as the internet.</p>
         <p>For authentication, a pre-shared key (PSK) is a straightforward method that uses a single, shared secret known only to the two peers. This approach is simple to configure and ideal for basic setups where ease of deployment is a priority. However, you must keep the key strictly confidential. An attacker with access to the key can compromise the connection.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a playbook file, for example, <codeph>~/playbook.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
- name: Configuring VPN
  hosts: managed-node-01.example.com, managed-node-02.example.com
  tasks:
    - name: IPsec VPN with PSK authentication
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: redhat.rhel_system_roles.vpn
      vars:
        vpn_connections:
          - name: control_plane_vpn
            hosts:
              managed-node-01.example.com:
                hostname: 203.0.113.1  # IP address for the control plane
              managed-node-02.example.com:
                hostname: 198.51.100.2 # IP address for the control plane
            auth_method: psk
            auto: start
          - name: data_plane_vpn
            hosts:
              managed-node-01.example.com:
                hostname: 10.0.0.1   # IP address for the data plane
              managed-node-02.example.com:
                hostname: 172.16.0.2 # IP address for the data plane
            auth_method: psk
            auto: start
        vpn_manage_firewall: true
        vpn_manage_selinux: true</codeblock>
               <p>The settings specified in the example playbook include the following:</p>
               <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>hosts: <i>&lt;list&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines a YAML dictionary with the hosts between which you want to configure a VPN. The connections are named <codeph>
                              <i>&lt;name&gt;</i>-<i>&lt;IP_address_A&gt;</i>-to-<i>&lt;IP_address_B&gt;</i>
                           </codeph>, for example <codeph>control_plane_vpn-203.0.113.1-to-198.51.100.2</codeph>.</p>
                        <p>The role configures the VPN connection on each managed node. Note that the role cannot configure Libreswan on external (unmanaged) nodes. You must manually create the configuration on these hosts.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>auth_method: psk</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Enables PSK authentication between the hosts. The role uses <codeph>openssl</codeph> on the control node to create the pre-shared key.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>auto: <i>&lt;startup_method&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Specifies the startup method of the connection. Valid values are <codeph>add</codeph>, <codeph>ondemand</codeph>, <codeph>start</codeph>, and <codeph>ignore</codeph>. For details, see the <codeph>ipsec.conf(5)</codeph> man page on a system with Libreswan installed. The default value of this variable is null, which means no automatic startup operation.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>vpn_manage_firewall: true</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines that the role opens the required ports in the <codeph>firewalld</codeph> service on the managed nodes.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>vpn_manage_selinux: true</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines that the role sets the required SELinux port type on the IPsec ports.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
               </dl>
               <p>For details about all variables used in the playbook, see the <codeph>/usr/share/ansible/roles/rhel-system-roles.vpn/README.md</codeph> file on the control node.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Validate the playbook syntax:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook --syntax-check ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only validates the syntax and does not protect against a wrong but valid configuration.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Run the playbook:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Confirm that the connections are successfully started, for example:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ansible managed-node-01.example.com -m shell -a 'ipsec trafficstatus | grep "control_plane_vpn-203.0.113.1-to-198.51.100.2"'</b>
...
006 #3: "control_plane_vpn-203.0.113.1-to-198.51.100.2", type=ESP, add_time=1741860073, inBytes=0, outBytes=0, maxBytes=2^63B, id='198.51.100.2'</codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only succeeds if the VPN connection is active. If you set the <codeph>auto</codeph> variable in the playbook to a value other than <codeph>start</codeph>, you might need to manually activate the connection on the managed nodes first.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
