<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="configuring-nested-vlans-using-nmcli-commands_configuring-vlan-tagging">
   <title>Configuring nested VLANs by using <codeph>nmcli</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The interface you plan to use as a parent to the virtual VLAN interface supports VLAN tags.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>If you configure the VLAN on top of a bond interface:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>The ports of the bond are up.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The bond is not configured with the <codeph>fail_over_mac=follow</codeph> option. A VLAN virtual device cannot change its MAC address to match the parent’s new MAC address. In such a case, the traffic would still be sent with the incorrect source MAC address.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The bond is usually not expected to get IP addresses from a DHCP server or IPv6 auto-configuration. Ensure it by setting the <codeph>ipv4.method=disable</codeph> and <codeph>ipv6.method=ignore</codeph> options while creating the bond. Otherwise, if DHCP or IPv6 auto-configuration fails after some time, the interface might be brought down.</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The switch, the host is connected to, is configured to support VLAN tags. For details, see the documentation of your switch.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>802.1ad is a protocol used for Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) tagging. It is also known as Q-in-Q tagging. You can use this technology to create multiple VLAN tags within a single Ethernet frame.</p>
         <p>Benefits of multiple VLAN tags within a single Ethernet frame:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Increased network scalability by creating multiple isolated network segments within a VLAN. This enables you to segment and organize large networks into smaller, manageable units.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Improved traffic management by isolating and controlling different types of network traffic. This can improve the network performance and reduce network congestion.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Efficient resource utilization by enabling the creation of smaller, more targeted network segments.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Enhanced security by isolating network traffic and reducing the risk of unauthorized access to sensitive data.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Display the physical network devices:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli device status</b>
DEVICE   TYPE      STATE         CONNECTION
enp1s0  ethernet  connected      enp1s0
...</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the base VLAN interface. For example, to create a base VLAN interface named <codeph>vlan10</codeph> that uses <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> as its parent interface and that tags packets with VLAN ID <codeph>10</codeph>, enter:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection add type vlan con-name vlan10 dev enp1s0 vlan.id 10</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that the VLAN must be within the range from <codeph>0</codeph> to <codeph>4094</codeph>.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>By default, the VLAN connection inherits the maximum transmission unit (MTU) from the parent interface. Optionally, set a different MTU value:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection modify vlan10 ethernet.mtu 2000</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the nested VLAN interface on top of the base VLAN interface:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection add type vlan con-name vlan10.20 dev enp1s0.10 id 20 vlan.protocol 802.1ad</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>This command creates a new VLAN connection with a name of <codeph>vlan10.20</codeph> and a VLAN ID of <codeph>20</codeph> on the parent VLAN connection <codeph>vlan10</codeph>. The <codeph>dev</codeph> option specifies the parent network device. In this case it is <codeph>enp1s0.10</codeph>. The <codeph>vlan.protocol</codeph> option specifies the VLAN encapsulation protocol. In this case it is <codeph>802.1ad</codeph> (Q-in-Q).</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Configure the IPv4 settings of the nested VLAN interface:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>To use DHCP, no action is required.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>To set a static IPv4 address, network mask, default gateway, and DNS server to the <codeph>vlan10.20</codeph> connection, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection modify vlan10.20 ipv4.method manual ipv4.addresses 192.0.2.1/24 ipv4.gateway 192.0.2.254 ipv4.dns 192.0.2.200</b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Configure the IPv6 settings of the nested VLAN interface:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>To use stateless address autoconfiguration (SLAAC), no action is required.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>To set a static IPv6 address, network mask, default gateway, and DNS server to the vlan10 connection, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection modify bridge0 ipv6.addresses '2001:db8:1::1/64' ipv6.gateway '2001:db8:1::fffe' ipv6.dns '2001:db8:1::fffd' ipv6.dns-search 'example.com' ipv6.method manual</b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Activate the profile:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection up vlan10.20</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Verify the configuration of the nested VLAN interface:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ip -d addr show enp1s0.10.20</b>
10: enp1s0.10.20@enp1s0.10: &lt;BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP&gt; mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 52:54:00:d2:74:3e brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff promiscuity 0 minmtu 0 maxmtu 65535
    vlan protocol 802.1ad id 20 &lt;REORDER_HDR&gt; numtxqueues 1 numrxqueues 1 gso_max_size 65536 gso_max_segs 65535 tso_max_size 65536 tso_max_segs 65535 gro_max_size 65536
    inet 192.0.2.1/24 brd 192.0.2.255 scope global noprefixroute enp1s0.10.20
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 2001:db8:1::1/32 scope global noprefixroute
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::ce3b:84c5:9ef8:d0e6/64 scope link noprefixroute
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
