<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="configuring-an-ipsec-site-to-site-vpn-with-psk-authentication-by-using-the-vpn-rhel-system-role_assembly_configuring-vpn-connections-with-ipsec-by-using-the-rhel-vpn-system-role">
   <title>Configuring an IPsec site-to-site VPN with PSK authentication by using the <codeph>vpn</codeph> RHEL system role</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/automating_system_administration_by_using_rhel_system_roles/assembly_preparing-a-control-node-and-managed-nodes-to-use-rhel-system-roles_automating-system-administration-by-using-rhel-system-roles"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">You have prepared the control node and the managed nodes</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The account you use to connect to the managed nodes has <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions for these nodes.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>A site-to-site VPN establishes an encrypted tunnel between two distinct networks, seamlessly linking them across an insecure public network. By using the <codeph>vpn</codeph> RHEL system role, you can automate the process of creating IPsec site-to-site VPN connections.</p>
         <p>A site-to-site VPN enables devices in a branch office to access resources at a corporate headquarters just as if they were all part of the same local network.</p>
         <p>For authentication, a pre-shared key (PSK) is a straightforward method that uses a single, shared secret known only to the two peers. This approach is simple to configure and ideal for basic setups where ease of deployment is a priority. However, you must keep the key strictly confidential. An attacker with access to the key can compromise the connection.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a playbook file, for example, <codeph>~/playbook.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
- name: Configuring VPN
  hosts: managed-node-01.example.com, managed-node-02.example.com
  tasks:
    - name: IPsec VPN with PSK authentication
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: redhat.rhel_system_roles.vpn
      vars:
        vpn_connections:
          - hosts:
              managed-node-01.example.com:
                subnets:
                  - 192.0.2.0/24
              managed-node-02.example.com:
                subnets:
                  - 198.51.100.0/24
                  - 203.0.113.0/24
            auth_method: psk
            auto: start
        vpn_manage_firewall: true
        vpn_manage_selinux: true</codeblock>
               <p>The settings specified in the example playbook include the following:</p>
               <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>hosts: <i>&lt;list&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines a YAML dictionary with the gateways between which you want to configure a VPN. If an entry is not an Ansible-managed node, you must specify its fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address in the <codeph>hostname</codeph> parameter, for example:</p>
                        <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">          ...
          - hosts:
              ...
              <b>external-host.example.com:</b>
                           <b>hostname: 192.0.2.1</b>
                        </codeblock>
                        <p>The role configures the VPN connection on each managed node. The connections are named <codeph>
                              <i>&lt;gateway_A&gt;</i>-to-<i>&lt;gateway_B&gt;</i>
                           </codeph>, for example, <codeph>managed-node-01.example.com-to-managed-node-02.example.com</codeph>. Note that the role cannot configure Libreswan on external (unmanaged) nodes. You must manually create the configuration on these peers.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>subnets: <i>&lt;yaml_list_of_subnets&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines subnets in classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) format that are connected through the tunnel.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>auth_method: psk</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Enables PSK authentication between the peers. The role uses <codeph>openssl</codeph> on the control node to create the PSK.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>auto: <i>&lt;startup_method&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Specifies the startup method of the connection. Valid values are <codeph>add</codeph>, <codeph>ondemand</codeph>, <codeph>start</codeph>, and <codeph>ignore</codeph>. For details, see the <codeph>ipsec.conf(5)</codeph> man page on a system with Libreswan installed. The default value of this variable is null, which means no automatic startup operation.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>vpn_manage_firewall: true</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines that the role opens the required ports in the <codeph>firewalld</codeph> service on the managed nodes.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>vpn_manage_selinux: true</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines that the role sets the required SELinux port type on the IPsec ports.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
               </dl>
               <p>For details about all variables used in the playbook, see the <codeph>/usr/share/ansible/roles/rhel-system-roles.vpn/README.md</codeph> file on the control node.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Validate the playbook syntax:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook --syntax-check ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only validates the syntax and does not protect against a wrong but valid configuration.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Run the playbook:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Confirm that the connections are successfully started, for example:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ansible managed-node-01.example.com -m shell -a 'ipsec trafficstatus | grep "managed-node-01.example.com-to-managed-node-02.example.com"'</b>
...
006 #3: "managed-node-01.example.com-to-managed-node-02.example.com", type=ESP, add_time=1741857153, inBytes=38622, outBytes=324626, maxBytes=2^63B, id='@managed-node-02.example.com'</codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only succeeds if the VPN connection is active. If you set the <codeph>auto</codeph> variable in the playbook to a value other than <codeph>start</codeph>, you might need to manually activate the connection on the managed nodes first.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
