<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="configuring-an-ethernet-connection-with-a-dynamic-ip-address-by-using-the-network-rhel-system-role-with-a-device-path_configuring-an-ethernet-connection">
   <title>Configuring an Ethernet connection with a dynamic IP address by using the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role with a device path</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/automating_system_administration_by_using_rhel_system_roles/assembly_preparing-a-control-node-and-managed-nodes-to-use-rhel-system-roles_automating-system-administration-by-using-rhel-system-roles"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">You have prepared the control node and the managed nodes</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The account you use to connect to the managed nodes has <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions for these nodes.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>A physical or virtual Ethernet device exists in the server’s configuration.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>A DHCP server and SLAAC are available in the network.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The managed hosts use NetworkManager to configure the network.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>You know the path of the device. You can display the device path by using the <codeph>udevadm info /sys/class/net/<i>&lt;device_name&gt;</i> | grep ID_PATH=</codeph> command.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>By using the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role, you can configure an Ethernet connection to retrieve its IP addresses, gateways, and DNS settings from a DHCP server and IPv6 stateless address autoconfiguration (SLAAC). The role can assign the profile by the device’s path.</p>
         <p>To connect a Red Hat Enterprise Linux host to an Ethernet network, create a NetworkManager connection profile for the network device. By using Ansible and the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role, you can automate this process and remotely configure connection profiles on the hosts defined in a playbook.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a playbook file, for example, <codeph>~/playbook.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
- name: Configure the network
  hosts: managed-node-01.example.com
  tasks:
    - name: Ethernet connection profile with dynamic IP address settings
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: redhat.rhel_system_roles.network
      vars:
        network_connections:
          - name: example
            match:
              path:
                - pci-0000:00:0[1-3].0
                - '&amp;!pci-0000:00:02.0'
            type: ethernet
            autoconnect: yes
            ip:
              dhcp4: yes
              auto6: yes
            state: up</codeblock>
               <p>The settings specified in the example playbook include the following:</p>
               <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>match: path</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines that a condition must be met in order to apply the settings. You can only use this variable with the <codeph>path</codeph> option.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>path: <i>&lt;path_and_expressions&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines the persistent path of a device. You can set it as a fixed path or an expression. Its value can contain modifiers and wildcards. The example applies the settings to devices that match PCI ID <codeph>0000:00:0[1-3].0</codeph>, but not <codeph>0000:00:02.0</codeph>.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>dhcp4: yes</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Enables automatic IPv4 address assignment from DHCP, PPP, or similar services.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>auto6: yes</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Enables IPv6 auto-configuration. By default, NetworkManager uses Router Advertisements. If the router announces the <codeph>managed</codeph> flag, NetworkManager requests an IPv6 address and prefix from a DHCPv6 server.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
               </dl>
               <p>For details about all variables used in the playbook, see the <codeph>/usr/share/ansible/roles/rhel-system-roles.network/README.md</codeph> file on the control node.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Validate the playbook syntax:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook --syntax-check ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only validates the syntax and does not protect against a wrong but valid configuration.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Run the playbook:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Query the Ansible facts of the managed node and verify that the interface received IP addresses and DNS settings:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ansible managed-node-01.example.com -m ansible.builtin.setup</b>
...
        "ansible_default_ipv4": {
            "address": "192.0.2.1",
            "alias": "enp1s0",
            "broadcast": "192.0.2.255",
            "gateway": "192.0.2.254",
            "interface": "enp1s0",
            "macaddress": "52:54:00:17:b8:b6",
            "mtu": 1500,
            "netmask": "255.255.255.0",
            "network": "192.0.2.0",
            "prefix": "24",
            "type": "ether"
        },
        "ansible_default_ipv6": {
            "address": "2001:db8:1::1",
            "gateway": "2001:db8:1::fffe",
            "interface": "enp1s0",
            "macaddress": "52:54:00:17:b8:b6",
            "mtu": 1500,
            "prefix": "64",
            "scope": "global",
            "type": "ether"
        },
        ...
        "ansible_dns": {
            "nameservers": [
                "192.0.2.1",
                "2001:db8:1::ffbb"
            ],
            "search": [
                "example.com"
            ]
        },
...</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
