<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configuring-ethtool-settings-in-networkmanager-connection-profiles_configuring-and-managing-networking">
   <title>Configuring <codeph>ethtool</codeph> settings in NetworkManager connection profiles</title>
   <body>
      <p>NetworkManager can configure certain network driver and hardware settings persistently. Compared to using the <codeph>ethtool</codeph> utility to manage these settings, this has the benefit of not losing the settings after a reboot.</p>
      <p>You can set the following <codeph>ethtool</codeph> settings in NetworkManager connection profiles:</p>
      <dl>
         <dlentry>
            <dt>Offload features</dt>
            <dd>
               <p>Network interface controllers can use the TCP offload engine (TOE) to offload processing certain operations to the network controller. This improves the network throughput.</p>
            </dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
            <dt>Interrupt coalesce settings</dt>
            <dd>
               <p>By using interrupt coalescing, the system collects network packets and generates a single interrupt for multiple packets. This increases the amount of data sent to the kernel with one hardware interrupt, which reduces the interrupt load, and maximizes the throughput.</p>
            </dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
            <dt>Ring buffers</dt>
            <dd>
               <p>These buffers store incoming and outgoing network packets. You can  increase the ring buffer sizes to reduce a high packet drop rate.</p>
            </dd>
         </dlentry>
         <dlentry>
            <dt>Channel settings</dt>
            <dd>
               <p>A network interface manages its associated number of channels along with hardware settings and network drivers. All devices associated with a network interface communicate with each other through interrupt requests (IRQ). Each device queue holds pending IRQ and communicates with each other over a data line known as channel. Types of queues are associated with specific channel types. These channel types include:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <codeph>rx</codeph> for receiving queues</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <codeph>tx</codeph> for transmit queues</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <codeph>other</codeph> for link interrupts or single root input/output virtualization (SR-IOV) coordination</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <codeph>combined</codeph> for hardware capacity-based multipurpose channels</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </dd>
         </dlentry>
      </dl>
   </body>
</topic>
