<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="configuring-a-client-to-connect-to-an-ipsec-vpn-gateway-by-using-nmstatectl_configuring-an-ipsec-based-vpn-connection-by-using-nmstatectl">
   <title>Configuring a client to connect to an IPsec VPN gateway by using <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The remote gateway runs Libreswan IPsec and is prepared for a <xref href="#manually-configuring-an-ipsec-host-to-site-vpn-with-certificate-based-authentication_setting-up-an-ipsec-vpn">host-to-site</xref> connection with certificate-based authentication.</p>
               <p>Due to the design of the <codeph>NetworkManager-libreswan</codeph> plugin, Nmstate cannot communicate with other peers that also use this plugin for the same connection.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The PKCS#12 file <codeph>~/file.p12</codeph> exists on the client with the following contents:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>The private key of the user</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The user certificate</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The CA certificate</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>If required, intermediate certificates</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>For details about creating a private key and certificate signing request (CSR), as well as about requesting a certificate from a CA, see your CA’s documentation.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The Extended Key Usage (EKU) in the certificate is set to <codeph>TLS Web Client Authentication</codeph>.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>To access resources on a remote private network, users must first configure an IPsec VPN connection. By using Nmstate, you can create the connection with an existing Libreswan IPsec gateway by using a declarative API.</p>
         <note>
            <p>In general, the choice of which host is named <i>left</i> and <i>right</i> is arbitrary. However, NetworkManager always uses the term <i>left</i> for the local host and <i>right</i> for the remote host.</p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>If Libreswan is not yet installed:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Install the required packages:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>dnf install nmstate libreswan NetworkManager-libreswan</b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Restart the NetworkManager service:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>systemctl restart NetworkManager</b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Initialize the Network Security Services (NSS) database:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>ipsec initnss</b>
                     </codeblock>
                     <p>The command creates the database in the <codeph>/var/lib/ipsec/nss/</codeph> directory.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Open the IPsec ports and protocols in the firewall:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service="ipsec"</b>
# <b>firewall-cmd --reload</b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Import the PKCS #12 file into the NSS database:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>ipsec import ~/file.p12</b>
Enter password for PKCS12 file: <i>&lt;password&gt;</i>
pk12util: PKCS12 IMPORT SUCCESSFUL
correcting trust bits for Example-CA</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Display the nicknames of the user and CA certificates:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>certutil -L -d  /var/lib/ipsec/nss/</b>
Certificate Nickname     Trust Attributes
                         SSL,S/MIME,JAR/XPI

user                     u,u,u
Example-CA               CT,,
...</codeblock>
               <p>You require this information in the Nmstate YAML file.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a YAML file, for example, <codeph>~/ipsec-host-to-site-cert-auth.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
interfaces:
- name: '<i>&lt;connection_name&gt;</i>'
  type: ipsec
  libreswan:
    ikev2: insist

    left: <i>&lt;ip_address_or_fqdn_of_left_peer&gt;</i>
    leftid: '%fromcert'
    leftcert: <i>&lt;user_certificate_nickname&gt;</i>

    right: <i>&lt;ip_address_or_fqdn_of_right_peer&gt;</i>
    rightid: '%fromcert'
    rightsubnet: 192.0.2.0/24</codeblock>
               <p>The settings specified in the example include the following:</p>
               <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>ikev2: insist</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines the modern IKEv2 protocol as the only allowed protocol without fallback to IKEv1. This setting is mandatory in a host-to-site configuration with Nmstate.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>left=<i>&lt;ip_address_or_fqdn_of_left_peer&gt;</i>
                        </codeph> and <codeph>right=<i>&lt;ip_address_or_fqdn_of_right_peer&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines the IP address or DNS name of the peers.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>leftid=%fromcert</codeph> and <codeph>rightid=%fromcert</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Configures Libreswan to retrieve the identity from the distinguished name (DN) field of the certificate.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>leftcert="<i>&lt;server_certificate_nickname&gt;</i>"</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Sets the nickname of the server’s certificate used in the NSS database.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>rightsubnet: <i>&lt;subnet&gt;</i>
                        </codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Defines the subnet in classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) format that is connected to the gateway.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
               </dl>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Apply the settings to the system:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl apply ~/ipsec-host-to-site-cert-auth.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Establish a connection to a host in the remote network or ping it.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
      <tasktroubleshooting>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>To display the actual configuration NetworkManager passes to Libreswan, enter:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection export <i>&lt;connection_name&gt;</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>The output can help to identify deviating settings, such as IDs and keys, when you compare them with the Libreswan configuration on the remote host.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </tasktroubleshooting>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>If you use this host in a network with DHCP or Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC), the connection can be vulnerable to being redirected. For details and mitigation steps, see <xref href="#assigning-a-vpn-connection-to-a-dedicated-routing-table-to-prevent-the-connection-from-bypassing-the-tunnel_setting-up-an-ipsec-vpn">Assigning a VPN connection to a dedicated routing table to prevent the connection from bypassing the tunnel</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
