<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="network-interface-naming-schemes_consistent-network-interface-device-naming">
   <title>Network interface naming schemes</title>
   <conbody>
      <p>The <codeph>udev</codeph> device manager uses certain stable interface attributes that device drivers provide to generate consistent device names.</p>
      <p>If a new <codeph>udev</codeph> version changes how the service creates names for certain interfaces, Red Hat adds a new scheme version and documents the details in the <codeph>systemd.net-naming-scheme(7)</codeph> man page on your system. By default, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 uses the <codeph>rhel-9.0</codeph> naming scheme, even if you install or update to a later minor version of RHEL.</p>
      <p>To prevent new drivers from providing more or other attributes for a network interface, the <codeph>rhel-net-naming-sysattrs</codeph> package provides the <codeph>/usr/lib/udev/hwdb.d/50-net-naming-sysattr-allowlist.hwdb</codeph> database. This database defines which <codeph>sysfs</codeph> values the <codeph>udev</codeph> service can use to create network interface names. The entries in the database are also versioned and influenced by the scheme version.</p>
      <note>
         <p>On RHEL 9.4 and later, you can also use all <codeph>rhel-8.*</codeph> naming schemes.</p>
      </note>
      <p>If you want to use a scheme other than the default, you can <xref href="#switching-to-a-different-network-interface-naming-scheme_consistent-network-interface-device-naming">switch the network interface naming scheme</xref>.</p>
      <p>For further details about the naming schemes for different device types and platforms, see the <codeph>systemd.net-naming-scheme(7)</codeph> man page on your system.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
