<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_updating-the-current-network-configuration-using-nmstatectl_assembly_introduction-to-nmstate">
   <title>Updating the current network configuration by using <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The <codeph>nmstate</codeph> package is installed.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can use the <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph> utility to store the current network configuration of one or all interfaces in a file.</p>
         <p>You can then use this file to:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Modify the configuration and apply it to the same system.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Copy the file to a different host and configure the host with the same or modified settings.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <p>For example, you can export the settings of the <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> interface to a file, modify the configuration, and apply the settings to the host.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Export the settings of the <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> interface to the <codeph>~/network-config.yml</codeph> file:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl show <i>enp1s0</i> &gt; <i>~/network-config.yml</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>This command stores the configuration of <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> in YAML format. To store the output in JSON format, pass the <codeph>--json</codeph> option to the command.</p>
               <p>If you do not specify an interface name, <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph> exports the configuration of all interfaces.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Modify the <codeph>~/network-config.yml</codeph> file using a text editor to update the configuration.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Apply the settings from the <codeph>~/network-config.yml</codeph> file:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl apply <i>~/network-config.yml</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>If you exported the settings in JSON format, pass the <codeph>--json</codeph> option to the command.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
   </taskbody>
</task>
