<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_fixing-unexpected-routing-behavior-due-to-multiple-default-gateways_managing-the-default-gateway-setting">
   <title>Fixing unexpected routing behavior due to multiple default gateways</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The host uses NetworkManager to manage network connections, which is the default.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The host has multiple network interfaces.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The host has multiple default gateways configured.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>For most hosts, you require only a single default gateway to prevent unexpected routing behavior and asynchronous routing issues. Multiple default gateways are typically needed only for specific scenarios, such as when using Multipath TCP.</p>
         <note>
            <p>To route traffic to different internet providers, use policy-based routing instead of multiple default gateways.</p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Display the routing table:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>For IPv4, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>ip -4 route</b>
default via 192.0.2.1 dev enp1s0 proto dhcp metric 101
default via 198.51.100.1 dev enp7s0 proto dhcp metric 102
...</codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>For IPv6, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>ip -6 route</b>
default via 2001:db8:1::1 dev enp1s0 proto static ra 101 pref medium
default via 2001:db8:2::1 dev enp7s0 proto static ra 102 pref medium
...</codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>Entries starting with <codeph>default</codeph> indicate a default route. Note the interface names of these entries displayed next to <codeph>dev</codeph>.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Use the following commands to display the NetworkManager connections that use the interfaces you identified in the previous step:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli -f GENERAL.CONNECTION,IP4.GATEWAY,IP6.GATEWAY device show enp1s0</b>
GENERAL.CONNECTION:      Corporate-LAN
IP4.GATEWAY:             192.0.2.1
IP6.GATEWAY:             2001:db8:1::1

# <b>nmcli -f GENERAL.CONNECTION,IP4.GATEWAY,IP6.GATEWAY device show enp7s0</b>
GENERAL.CONNECTION:      Internet-Provider
IP4.GATEWAY:             198.51.100.1
IP6.GATEWAY:             2001:db8:2::1</codeblock>
               <p>In these examples, the profiles named <codeph>Corporate-LAN</codeph> and <codeph>Internet-Provider</codeph> have the default gateways set. Because, in a local network, the default gateway is typically the host that is one hop closer to the internet, the rest of this procedure assumes that the default gateways in the <codeph>Corporate-LAN</codeph> are incorrect.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Configure that NetworkManager does not use the <codeph>Corporate-LAN</codeph> connection as the default route for IPv4 and IPv6 connections:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection modify Corporate-LAN ipv4.never-default yes ipv6.never-default yes</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that setting <codeph>ipv4.never-default</codeph> and <codeph>ipv6.never-default</codeph> to <codeph>yes</codeph>, automatically removes the default gateway’s IP address for the corresponding protocol from the connection profile.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Activate the <codeph>Corporate-LAN</codeph> connection:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection up Corporate-LAN</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Display the IPv4 and IPv6 routing tables and verify that only one default gateway is available for each protocol:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>For IPv4, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>ip -4 route</b>
default via 198.51.100.1 dev enp7s0 proto dhcp metric 102
...</codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>For IPv6, enter:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>ip -6 route</b>
default via 2001:db8:2::1 dev enp7s0 proto ra metric 102 pref medium
...</codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="#proc_configuring-a-static-route-by-using-the-network-rhel-system-role_configuring-static-routes/configuring-policy-based-routing-to-define-alternative-routes_configuring-and-managing-networking">Configuring policy-based routing to define alternative routes</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
