<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-static-ethernet-connection-with-802-1x-network-authentication-by-using-nmstatectl_authenticating-a-rhel-client-to-the-network-using-the-802-1x-standard-with-a-certificate-stored-on-the-file-system">
   <title>Configuring a static Ethernet connection with 802.1X network authentication by using <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The network supports 802.1X network authentication.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The managed node uses NetworkManager.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The following files required for TLS authentication exist on the client:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>The client key stored is in the <codeph>/etc/pki/tls/private/client.key</codeph> file, and the file is owned and only readable by the <codeph>root</codeph> user.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The client certificate is stored in the <codeph>/etc/pki/tls/certs/client.crt</codeph> file.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The Certificate Authority (CA) certificate is stored in the <codeph>/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca.crt</codeph> file.</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can use the declarative Nmstate API to configure an Ethernet connection with 802.1X network authentication. Nmstate ensures that the result matches the configuration file or rolls back the changes.</p>
         <note>
            <p>The <codeph>nmstate</codeph> library only supports the <codeph>TLS</codeph> Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) method.</p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a YAML file, for example <codeph>~/create-ethernet-profile.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
interfaces:
- name: enp1s0
  type: ethernet
  state: up
  ipv4:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 192.0.2.1
      prefix-length: 24
    dhcp: false
  ipv6:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 2001:db8:1::1
      prefix-length: 64
    autoconf: false
    dhcp: false
  802.1x:
    ca-cert: /etc/pki/tls/certs/ca.crt
    client-cert: /etc/pki/tls/certs/client.crt
    eap-methods:
      - tls
    identity: client.example.org
    private-key: /etc/pki/tls/private/client.key
    private-key-password: password
routes:
  config:
  - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.254
    next-hop-interface: enp1s0
  - destination: ::/0
    next-hop-address: 2001:db8:1::fffe
    next-hop-interface: enp1s0
dns-resolver:
  config:
    search:
    - example.com
    server:
    - 192.0.2.200
    - 2001:db8:1::ffbb</codeblock>
               <p>These settings define an Ethernet connection profile for the <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> device with the following settings:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>A static IPv4 address - <codeph>192.0.2.1</codeph> with a <codeph>/24</codeph> subnet mask</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>A static IPv6 address - <codeph>2001:db8:1::1</codeph> with a <codeph>/64</codeph> subnet mask</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>An IPv4 default gateway - <codeph>192.0.2.254</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>An IPv6 default gateway - <codeph>2001:db8:1::fffe</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>An IPv4 DNS server - <codeph>192.0.2.200</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>An IPv6 DNS server - <codeph>2001:db8:1::ffbb</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>A DNS search domain - <codeph>example.com</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>802.1X network authentication using the <codeph>TLS</codeph> EAP protocol</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Apply the settings to the system:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl apply ~/create-ethernet-profile.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Access resources on the network that require network authentication.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
