<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-network-bond-by-using-nmstatectl_configuring-network-bonding">
   <title>Configuring a network bond by using <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Two or more physical or virtual network devices are installed on the server.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>To use Ethernet devices as ports in the bond, the physical or virtual Ethernet devices must be installed on the server.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>To use team, bridge, or VLAN devices as ports in the bond, set the interface name in the <codeph>port</codeph> list, and define the corresponding interfaces.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The <codeph>nmstate</codeph> package is installed.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can use the declarative Nmstate API to configure a network bond. Nmstate ensures that the result matches the configuration file or rolls back the changes.</p>
         <p>Depending on your environment, adjust the YAML file accordingly. For example, to use different devices than Ethernet adapters in the bond, adapt the <codeph>base-iface</codeph> attribute and <codeph>type</codeph> attributes of the ports you use in the bond.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a YAML file, for example <codeph>~/create-bond.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
interfaces:
- name: bond0 # (1)
  type: bond # (2)
  state: up
  ipv4:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 192.0.2.1
      prefix-length: 24
    dhcp: false
  ipv6:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 2001:db8:1::1
      prefix-length: 64
    autoconf: false
    dhcp: false
  link-aggregation:
    mode: active-backup # (3)
    port:
    - enp1s0
    - enp7s0 # (4)
- name: enp1s0
  type: ethernet
  state: up
- name: enp7s0
  type: ethernet
  state: up

routes:
  config:
  - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.254
    next-hop-interface: bond0
    metric: 300
  - destination: ::/0
    next-hop-address: 2001:db8:1::fffe
    next-hop-interface: bond0
    metric: 300

dns-resolver:
  config:
    search:
    - example.com
    server:
    - 192.0.2.200
    - 2001:db8:1::ffbb # (5)</codeblock>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <codeph>interfaces.name</codeph>: The name of the bond interface</li>
                  <li>
                     <codeph>interfaces.type</codeph>: The type of network interface</li>
                  <li>
                     <codeph>link-aggregation.mode</codeph>: The bonding mode, set to active-backup for failover</li>
                  <li>
                     <codeph>link-aggregation.port</codeph>: The list of physical interfaces used as bond ports</li>
                  <li>
                     <codeph>dns-resolver.config.server</codeph>: The DNS server IP addresses for name resolution</li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Apply the settings to the system:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl apply ~/create-bond.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Display the status of the devices and connections:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli device status</b>
DEVICE      TYPE      STATE      CONNECTION
bond0       bond      <b>connected</b>  bond0</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display all settings of the connection profile:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection show bond0</b>
connection.id:              bond0
connection.uuid:            79cbc3bd-302e-4b1f-ad89-f12533b818ee
connection.stable-id:       --
connection.type:            bond
connection.interface-name:  bond0
...</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display the connection settings in YAML format:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl show bond0</b>
               </codeblock>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
