<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_blocking-and-allowing-traffic-based-on-hostapd-authentication-events_assembly_setting-up-an-802-1x-network-authentication-service-for-lan-clients-using-hostapd-with-freeradius-backend">
   <title>Blocking and allowing traffic based on <codeph>hostapd</codeph> authentication events</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The <codeph>hostapd</codeph> service has been configured, and the service is ready to authenticate clients.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>The <codeph>hostapd</codeph> service does not interact with the traffic plane. The service acts only as an authenticator. However, you can write a script to allow and deny traffic based on the result of authentication events.</p>
         <note type="important">
            <p>This procedure is not supported and is no enterprise-ready solution. It only demonstrates how to block or allow traffic by evaluating events retrieved by <codeph>hostapd_cli</codeph>.</p>
         </note>
         <p>When the <codeph>802-1x-tr-mgmt</codeph> systemd service starts, RHEL blocks all traffic on the listen port of <codeph>hostapd</codeph> except extensible authentication protocol over LAN (EAPOL) packets and uses the <codeph>hostapd_cli</codeph> utility to connect to the <codeph>hostapd</codeph> control interface. The <codeph>/usr/local/bin/802-1x-tr-mgmt</codeph> script then evaluates events. Depending on the different events received by <codeph>hostapd_cli</codeph>, the script allows or blocks traffic for MAC addresses. Note that, when the <codeph>802-1x-tr-mgmt</codeph> service stops, all traffic is automatically allowed again.</p>
         <p>Perform this procedure on the <codeph>hostapd</codeph> server.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the <codeph>/usr/local/bin/802-1x-tr-mgmt</codeph> file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">#!/bin/sh

TABLE="tr-mgmt-${1}"
read -r -d '' TABLE_DEF &lt;&lt; EOF
table bridge ${TABLE} {
    set allowed_macs {
        type ether_addr
    }

    chain accesscontrol {
        ether saddr @allowed_macs accept
        ether daddr @allowed_macs accept
        drop
    }

    chain forward {
        type filter hook forward priority 0; policy accept;
        meta ibrname "$1" jump accesscontrol
    }
}
EOF

case ${2:-NOTANEVENT} in
    block_all)
        nft destroy table bridge "$TABLE"
        printf "$TABLE_DEF" | nft -f -
        echo "$1: All the bridge traffic blocked. Traffic for a client with a given MAC will be allowed after 802.1x authentication"
        ;;

    AP-STA-CONNECTED | CTRL-EVENT-EAP-SUCCESS | CTRL-EVENT-EAP-SUCCESS2)
        nft add element bridge tr-mgmt-br0 allowed_macs { $3 }
        echo "$1: Allowed traffic from $3"
        ;;

    AP-STA-DISCONNECTED | CTRL-EVENT-EAP-FAILURE)
        nft delete element bridge tr-mgmt-br0 allowed_macs { $3 }
        echo "$1: Denied traffic from $3"
        ;;

    allow_all)
        nft destroy table bridge "$TABLE"
        echo "$1: Allowed all bridge traffic again"
        ;;

    NOTANEVENT)
        echo "$0 was called incorrectly, usage: $0 interface event [mac_address]"
        ;;
esac</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the <codeph>/etc/systemd/system/802-1x-tr-mgmt@.service</codeph> systemd service file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-console">[Unit]
Description=Example 802.1x traffic management for hostapd
After=hostapd.service
After=sys-devices-virtual-net-%i.device

[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStartPre=bash -c '/usr/sbin/hostapd_cli ping | grep PONG'
ExecStartPre=/usr/local/bin/802-1x-tr-mgmt %i block_all
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/hostapd_cli -i %i -a /usr/local/bin/802-1x-tr-mgmt
ExecStopPost=/usr/local/bin/802-1x-tr-mgmt %i allow_all

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Reload systemd:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl daemon-reload</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Enable and start the <codeph>802-1x-tr-mgmt</codeph> service with the interface name <codeph>hostapd</codeph> is listening on:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl enable --now 802-1x-tr-mgmt@br0.service</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Authenticate with a client to the network. See <xref href="#proc_testing-eap-ttls-authentication-against-a-freeradius-server-or-authenticator_assembly_setting-up-an-802-1x-network-authentication-service-for-lan-clients-using-hostapd-with-freeradius-backend">Testing EAP-TTLS authentication against a FreeRADIUS server or authenticator</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
