<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-wireguard-server-by-using-nm-connection-editor_assembly_setting-up-a-wireguard-vpn">
   <title>Configuring a WireGuard server by using nm-connection-editor</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>You have generated the public and private key for both the server and client.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>You know the following information:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>The private key of the server</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The static tunnel IP addresses and subnet masks of the client</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The public key of the client</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The static tunnel IP addresses and subnet masks of the server</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can configure the WireGuard server by creating a connection profile in NetworkManager. Use this method to let NetworkManager manage the WireGuard connection.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Open a terminal, and enter:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nm-connection-editor</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Add a new connection by clicking the <uicontrol>+</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Select the <codeph>WireGuard</codeph> connection type, and click <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Optional: Update the connection name.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>On the <codeph>General</codeph> tab, select <codeph>Connect automatically with priority</codeph>. Optionally, set a priority value.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>On the <codeph>WireGuard</codeph> tab:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Enter the name of the virtual interface, such as <codeph>wg0</codeph>, that NetworkManager should assign to the connection.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Enter the private key of the server.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Set the listen port number, such as <codeph>51820</codeph>, for incoming WireGuard connections.</p>
                     <p>Always set a fixed port number on hosts that receive incoming WireGuard connections. If you do not set a port, WireGuard uses a random free port each time you activate the interface.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to add peers:</p>
                     <ol>
                        <li>
                           <p>Enter the public key of the client.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>Set the <codeph>Allowed IPs</codeph> field to the tunnel IP addresses of the client that are allowed to send data to this server.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol>.</p>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>On the <codeph>IPv4 Settings</codeph> tab:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Select <codeph>Manual</codeph> in the <codeph>Method</codeph> list.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to enter the tunnel IPv4 address and the subnet mask. Leave the <codeph>Gateway</codeph> field empty.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>On the <codeph>IPv6 Settings</codeph> tab:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Select <codeph>Manual</codeph> in the <codeph>Method</codeph> list.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to enter the tunnel IPv6 address and the subnet mask. Leave the <codeph>Gateway</codeph> field empty.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to store the connection profile.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>If you use this host in a network with DHCP or Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC), the connection can be vulnerable to being redirected. For details and mitigation steps, see <xref href="#assigning-a-vpn-connection-to-a-dedicated-routing-table-to-prevent-the-connection-from-bypassing-the-tunnel_assembly_setting-up-a-wireguard-vpn">Assigning a VPN connection to a dedicated routing table to prevent the connection from bypassing the tunnel</xref>.</cmd>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Display the interface configuration of the <codeph>wg0</codeph> device:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>wg show <i>wg0</i>
                  </b>
interface: <i>wg0</i>
  public key: <i>UtjqCJ57DeAscYKRfp7cFGiQqdONRn69u249Fa4O6BE=</i>
  private key: (hidden)
  listening port: <i>51820</i>

peer: <i>bnwfQcC8/g2i4vvEqcRUM2e6Hi3Nskk6G9t4r26nFVM=</i>
  allowed ips: <i>192.0.2.2/32, 2001:db8:1::2/128</i>
               </codeblock>
               <p>To display the private key in the output, use the <codeph>WG_HIDE_KEYS=never wg show <i>wg0</i>
                  </codeph> command.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display the IP configuration of the <codeph>wg0</codeph> device:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ip address show <i>wg0</i>
                  </b>
                  <i>20</i>: <i>wg0</i>: &lt;POINTOPOINT,NOARP,UP,LOWER_UP&gt; mtu 1420 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
    link/none
    inet <i>192.0.2.1/24</i> brd <i>192.0.2.255</i> scope global noprefixroute wg0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 <i>2001:db8:1::1/32</i> scope global noprefixroute
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 <i>fe80::3ef:8863:1ce2:844/64</i> scope link noprefixroute
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="#proc_configuring-firewalld-on-a-wireguard-server-by-using-the-graphical-interface_assembly_setting-up-a-wireguard-vpn">Configure the firewalld service on the WireGuard server</xref>.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
