<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_manually-setting-the-wireless-regulatory-domain_assembly_managing-wifi-connections">
   <title>Manually setting the wireless regulatory domain</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The driver of the wifi device supports changing the regulatory domain.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>On RHEL, a <codeph>udev</codeph> rule executes the <codeph>setregdomain</codeph> utility to set the wireless regulatory domain. The utility then provides this information to the kernel.</p>
         <p>By default, <codeph>setregdomain</codeph> attempts to determine the country code automatically. If this fails, the wireless regulatory domain setting might be wrong. To work around this problem, you can manually set the country code.</p>
         <note type="important">
            <p>Manually setting the regulatory domain disables the automatic detection. Therefore, if you later use the computer in a different country, the previously configured setting might no longer be correct. In this case, remove the <codeph>/etc/sysconfig/regdomain</codeph> file to switch back to automatic detection or use this procedure to manually update the regulatory domain setting again.</p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Optional: Display the current regulatory domain settings:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>iw reg get</b>
global
country US: DFS-FCC
...</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the <codeph>/etc/sysconfig/regdomain</codeph> file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>
                  <b>COUNTRY=<i>&lt;country_code&gt;</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Set the <codeph>COUNTRY</codeph> variable to an ISO 3166-1 alpha2 country code, such as <codeph>DE</codeph> for Germany or <codeph>US</codeph> for the United States of America.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Set the regulatory domain:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>setregdomain</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Display the regulatory domain settings:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>iw reg get</b>
global
country DE: DFS-ETSI
...</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">ISO 3166 Country Codes</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
