<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-network-bridge-by-using-nmstatectl_configuring-a-network-bridge">
   <title>Configuring a network bridge by using <codeph>nmstatectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Two or more physical or virtual network devices are installed on the server.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>To use Ethernet devices as ports in the bridge, the physical or virtual Ethernet devices must be installed on the server.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>To use team, bond, or VLAN devices as ports in the bridge, set the interface name in the <codeph>port</codeph> list, and define the corresponding interfaces.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The <codeph>nmstate</codeph> package is installed.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can use the declarative Nmstate API to configure a network bridge. Nmstate ensures that the result matches the configuration file or rolls back the changes.</p>
         <p>Depending on your environment, adjust the YAML file accordingly. For example, to use different devices than Ethernet adapters in the bridge, adapt the <codeph>base-iface</codeph> attribute and <codeph>type</codeph> attributes of the ports you use in the bridge.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a YAML file, for example <codeph>~/create-bridge.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
interfaces:
- name: bridge0
  type: linux-bridge
  state: up
  ipv4:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 192.0.2.1
      prefix-length: 24
    dhcp: false
  ipv6:
    enabled: true
    address:
    - ip: 2001:db8:1::1
      prefix-length: 64
    autoconf: false
    dhcp: false
  bridge:
    options:
      stp:
        enabled: true
    port:
      - name: enp1s0
      - name: enp7s0
- name: enp1s0
  type: ethernet
  state: up
- name: enp7s0
  type: ethernet
  state: up

routes:
  config:
  - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.254
    next-hop-interface: bridge0
  - destination: ::/0
    next-hop-address: 2001:db8:1::fffe
    next-hop-interface: bridge0
dns-resolver:
  config:
    search:
    - example.com
    server:
    - 192.0.2.200
    - 2001:db8:1::ffbb</codeblock>
               <p>These settings define a network bridge with the following settings:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>Network interfaces in the bridge: <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> and <codeph>enp7s0</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Spanning Tree Protocol (STP): Enabled</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Static IPv4 address: <codeph>192.0.2.1</codeph> with the <codeph>/24</codeph> subnet mask</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Static IPv6 address: <codeph>2001:db8:1::1</codeph> with the <codeph>/64</codeph> subnet mask</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>IPv4 default gateway: <codeph>192.0.2.254</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>IPv6 default gateway: <codeph>2001:db8:1::fffe</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>IPv4 DNS server: <codeph>192.0.2.200</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>IPv6 DNS server: <codeph>2001:db8:1::ffbb</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>DNS search domain: <codeph>example.com</codeph>
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Apply the settings to the system:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl apply ~/create-bridge.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Display the status of the devices and connections:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli device status</b>
DEVICE      TYPE      STATE      CONNECTION
bridge0     bridge    <b>connected</b>  bridge0</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display all settings of the connection profile:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection show bridge0</b>
connection.id:              bridge0_
connection.uuid:            e2cc9206-75a2-4622-89cf-1252926060a9
connection.stable-id:       --
connection.type:            bridge
connection.interface-name:  bridge0
...</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display the connection settings in YAML format:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmstatectl show bridge0</b>
               </codeblock>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5314671"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">How to configure a bridge with VLAN information? (Red Hat Knowledgebase)</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
