<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-wifi-connection-with-802-1x-network-authentication-by-using-the-network-rhel-system-role_authenticating-a-rhel-client-to-the-network-using-the-802-1x-standard-with-a-certificate-stored-on-the-file-system">
   <title>Configuring a wifi connection with 802.1X network authentication by using the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/automating_system_administration_by_using_rhel_system_roles/assembly_preparing-a-control-node-and-managed-nodes-to-use-rhel-system-roles_automating-system-administration-by-using-rhel-system-roles"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">You have prepared the control node and the managed nodes</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The account you use to connect to the managed nodes has <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions for these nodes.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The network supports 802.1X network authentication.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>You installed the <codeph>wpa_supplicant</codeph> package on the managed node.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>DHCP is available in the network of the managed node.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>The following files required for TLS authentication exist on the control node:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>The client key is stored in the <codeph>/srv/data/client.key</codeph> file.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The client certificate is stored in the <codeph>/srv/data/client.crt</codeph> file.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>The CA certificate is stored in the <codeph>/srv/data/ca.crt</codeph> file.</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>By using the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role, you can automate setting up Network Access Control (NAC) on remote hosts. You can define authentication details for clients in a playbook to ensure only authorized clients can access the network.</p>
         <p>You can use an Ansible playbook to copy a private key, a certificate, and the CA certificate to the client, and then use the <codeph>network</codeph> RHEL system role to configure a connection profile with 802.1X network authentication.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Store your sensitive variables in an encrypted file:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Create the vault:</p>
                     <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-vault create ~/vault.yml</b>
New Vault password: <i>&lt;vault_password&gt;</i>
Confirm New Vault password: <i>&lt;vault_password&gt;</i>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>After the <codeph>ansible-vault create</codeph> command opens an editor, enter the sensitive data in the <codeph>
                           <i>&lt;key&gt;</i>: <i>&lt;value&gt;</i>
                        </codeph> format:</p>
                     <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">pwd: <i>&lt;password&gt;</i>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Save the changes, and close the editor. Ansible encrypts the data in the vault.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a playbook file, for example, <codeph>~/playbook.yml</codeph>, with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">---
- name: Configure a wifi connection with 802.1X authentication
  hosts: managed-node-01.example.com
  tasks:
    - name: Copy client key for 802.1X authentication
      ansible.builtin.copy:
        src: "/srv/data/client.key"
        dest: "/etc/pki/tls/private/client.key"
        mode: 0400

    - name: Copy client certificate for 802.1X authentication
      ansible.builtin.copy:
        src: "/srv/data/client.crt"
        dest: "/etc/pki/tls/certs/client.crt"

    - name: Copy CA certificate for 802.1X authentication
      ansible.builtin.copy:
        src: "/srv/data/ca.crt"
        dest: "/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/ca.crt"

    - name: Wifi connection profile with dynamic IP address settings and 802.1X
      ansible.builtin.import_role:
        name: redhat.rhel_system_roles.network
      vars:
        network_connections:
          - name: Wifi connection profile with dynamic IP address settings and 802.1X
            interface_name: wlp1s0
            state: up
            type: wireless
            autoconnect: yes
            ip:
              dhcp4: true
              auto6: true
            wireless:
              ssid: "Example-wifi"
              key_mgmt: "wpa-eap"
            ieee802_1x:
              identity: <i>&lt;user_name&gt;</i>
              eap: tls
              private_key: "/etc/pki/tls/client.key"
              private_key_password: "{{ pwd }}"
              private_key_password_flags: none
              client_cert: "/etc/pki/tls/client.pem"
              ca_cert: "/etc/pki/tls/cacert.pem"
              domain_suffix_match: "example.com"</codeblock>
               <p>The settings specified in the example playbook include the following:</p>
               <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>ieee802_1x</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>This variable contains the 802.1X-related settings.</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                     <dt>
                        <codeph>eap: tls</codeph>
                     </dt>
                     <dd>
                        <p>Configures the profile to use the certificate-based <codeph>TLS</codeph> authentication method for the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP).</p>
                     </dd>
                  </dlentry>
               </dl>
               <p>For details about all variables used in the playbook, see the <codeph>/usr/share/ansible/roles/rhel-system-roles.network/README.md</codeph> file on the control node.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Validate the playbook syntax:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook --ask-vault-pass --syntax-check ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Note that this command only validates the syntax and does not protect against a wrong but valid configuration.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Run the playbook:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock>$ <b>ansible-playbook --ask-vault-pass ~/playbook.yml</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
   </taskbody>
</task>
