<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_starting-a-service-within-an-isolated-vrf-network_assembly_starting-a-service-within-an-isolated-vrf-network">
   <title>Starting a service within an isolated VRF network</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>You configured the <codeph>vrf0</codeph> device.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>You configured Apache HTTP Server to listen only on the IP address that is assigned to the interface associated with the <codeph>vrf0</codeph> device.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>You can configure a service, such as the Apache HTTP Server, to start within an isolated virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) network.</p>
         <note type="important">
            <p>Services can only bind to local IP addresses that are in the same VRF network.</p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Display the content of the <codeph>httpd</codeph> systemd service:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl cat httpd</b>
...
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/httpd $OPTIONS -DFOREGROUND
...</codeblock>
               <p>You require the content of the <codeph>ExecStart</codeph> parameter in a later step to run the same command within the isolated VRF network.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the <codeph>/etc/systemd/system/httpd.service.d/</codeph> directory:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>mkdir /etc/systemd/system/httpd.service.d/</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create the <codeph>/etc/systemd/system/httpd.service.d/override.conf</codeph> file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-console">[Service]
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/ip vrf exec <i>vrf0</i> /usr/sbin/httpd $OPTIONS -DFOREGROUND</codeblock>
               <p>To override the <codeph>ExecStart</codeph> parameter, you first need to unset it and then set it to the new value as shown.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Reload systemd.</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl daemon-reload</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Restart the <codeph>httpd</codeph> service.</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl restart httpd</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Display the process IDs (PID) of <codeph>httpd</codeph> processes:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>pidof -c httpd</b>
1904 ...</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display the VRF association for the PIDs, for example:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ip vrf identify 1904</b>
vrf0</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Display all PIDs associated with the <codeph>vrf0</codeph> device:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>ip vrf pids vrf0</b>
1904  httpd
...</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
