<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_configuring-a-single-connection-profile-for-multiple-ethernet-interfaces-using-pci-ids_configuring-an-ethernet-connection">
   <title>Configuring a single connection profile for multiple Ethernet interfaces using PCI IDs</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Multiple physical or virtual Ethernet devices exist in the server’s configuration.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>A DHCP server is available in the network.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>No connection profile exists on the host.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>A PCI ID uniquely identifies devices on a system. A connection profile can add multiple devices by matching interfaces to a list of PCI IDs. With this feature, you can link multiple devices to one connection profile.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Identify the device path. For example, to display the device paths of all interfaces starting with <codeph>enp</codeph>, enter :</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>udevadm info /sys/class/net/enp* | grep ID_PATH=</b>
...
E: ID_PATH=pci-0000:07:00.0
E: ID_PATH=pci-0000:08:00.0</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Add a connection profile that applies to all PCI IDs matching the <codeph>0000:00:0[7-8].0</codeph> expression:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection add type ethernet connection.multi-connect multiple match.path "pci-0000:07:00.0 pci-0000:08:00.0" con-name "Wired connection 1"</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Display the status of the connection:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection show</b>
NAME                 UUID                                  TYPE      DEVICE
Wired connection 1   9cee0958-512f-4203-9d3d-b57af1d88466  ethernet  enp7s0
Wired connection 1   9cee0958-512f-4203-9d3d-b57af1d88466  ethernet  enp8s0
...</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>To display all settings of the connection profile:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection show "Wired connection 1"</b>
connection.id:               Wired connection 1
...
connection.multi-connect:    3 (multiple)
match.path:                  pci-0000:07:00.0,pci-0000:08:00.0
...</codeblock>
               <p>This connection profile uses all devices with a PCI ID which match the pattern in the <codeph>match.path</codeph> parameter and, therefore, the connection profiles have the same Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
