<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_changing-a-hostname-using-hostnamectl_assembly_changing-a-hostname">
   <title>Changing a hostname by using <codeph>hostnamectl</codeph>
   </title>
   <taskbody>
      <context>
         <p>You can use the <codeph>hostnamectl</codeph> utility to update the hostname.</p>
         <p>By default, <codeph>hostnamectl</codeph> sets the following hostname types:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Static hostname: Stored in the <codeph>/etc/hostname</codeph> file. Typically, services use this name as the hostname.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Pretty hostname: A descriptive name, such as <codeph>Proxy server in data center A</codeph>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Transient hostname: A fall-back value that is typically received from the network configuration.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Optional: Display the current hostname setting:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>hostnamectl status --static</b>
                  <i>old-hostname.example.com</i>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Set the new hostname:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>hostnamectl set-hostname <i>new-hostname.example.com</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>This command sets the static and transient hostname to the new value. To set only a specific type, pass the <codeph>--static</codeph>, <codeph>--pretty</codeph>, or <codeph>--transient</codeph> option to the command.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>The <codeph>hostnamectl</codeph> utility automatically restarts the <codeph>systemd-hostnamed</codeph> to activate the new name. For the changes to take effect, reboot the host:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>reboot</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>Alternatively, if you know which services use the hostname:</p>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>Restart all services that only read the hostname when the service starts:</p>
                     <codeblock># <b>systemctl restart <i>&lt;service_name&gt;</i>
                        </b>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>Active shell users must re-login for the changes to take effect.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Display the hostname:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>hostnamectl status --static</b>
                  <i>new-hostname.example.com</i>
               </codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
