<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="proc_manually-creating-a-networkmanager-profile-in-keyfile-format_assembly_networkmanager-connection-profiles-in-keyfile-format">
   <title>Manually creating a NetworkManager profile in keyfile format</title>
   <taskbody>
      <context>
         <p>You can manually create a NetworkManager connection profile in keyfile format. For example, this can be required if an external application generates the profiles.</p>
         <note type="attention">
            <p>Manually creating or updating the configuration files can result in an unexpected or non-functional network configuration. As an alternative, you can use <codeph>nmcli</codeph> in offline mode. See <xref href="#proc_using-nmcli-to-create-keyfile-connection-profiles-in-offline-mode_assembly_networkmanager-connection-profiles-in-keyfile-format">Using nmcli to create keyfile connection profiles in offline mode</xref>
            </p>
         </note>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Create a connection profile. For example, for a connection profile for the <codeph>enp1s0</codeph> Ethernet device that uses DHCP, create the <codeph>/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/example.nmconnection</codeph> file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-console">[connection]
id=Example-Connection
type=ethernet
autoconnect=true
interface-name=enp1s0

[ipv4]
method=auto

[ipv6]
method=auto</codeblock>
               <note>
                  <p>You can use any file name with a <codeph>.nmconnection</codeph> suffix. However, when you later use <codeph>nmcli</codeph> commands to manage the connection, you must use the connection name set in the <codeph>id</codeph> variable when you refer to this connection. When you omit the <codeph>id</codeph> variable, use the file name without the <codeph>.nmconnection</codeph> to refer to this connection.</p>
               </note>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Set permissions on the configuration file so that only the <codeph>root</codeph> user can read and update it:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>chown root:root /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/example.nmconnection</b>
# <b>chmod 600 /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/example.nmconnection</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Reload the connection profiles:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection reload</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Verify that NetworkManager read the profile from the configuration file:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli -f NAME,UUID,FILENAME connection</b>
NAME                UUID                                  FILENAME
Example-Connection  86da2486-068d-4d05-9ac7-957ec118afba  /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/example.nmconnection
...</codeblock>
               <p>If the command does not show the newly added connection, verify that the file permissions and the syntax you used in the file are correct.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>If you set the <codeph>autoconnect</codeph> variable in the profile to <codeph>false</codeph>, activate the connection:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection up example_connection</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Display the connection profile:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection show example_connection</b>
               </codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
