<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="protecting-the-ipsec-nss-database-with-a-password_setting-up-an-ipsec-vpn">
   <title>Protecting the IPsec NSS database with a password</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>The <codeph>/var/lib/ipsec/nss/</codeph> directory contains the NSS database.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>By default, only the root user can access the IPsec Network Security Services (NSS) database in the <codeph>/var/lib/ipsec/nss/</codeph> directory. You can additionally protect the database with a password. This is required if you run RHEL in Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) mode.</p>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>Enable password protection for the Libreswan NSS database:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>certutil -W -d /var/lib/ipsec/nss/</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Enter the current password:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-txt">Enter Password or Pin for "NSS Certificate DB": <i>&lt;password&gt;</i>
               </codeblock>
               <p>If the database is currently not protected by a password, press <ph>Enter</ph>.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Enter the new password:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock outputclass="language-txt">Enter new password: <i>&lt;new_password&gt;</i>
Re-enter password: <i>&lt;new_password&gt;</i>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>To unlock the database, the <codeph>ipsec</codeph> service requires the <codeph>/etc/ipsec.d/nsspassword</codeph> file. Create the file with the following content:</cmd>
            <info>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>If the host does not run in FIPS mode:</p>
                     <codeblock outputclass="language-txt">NSS Certificate DB:<i>&lt;password&gt;</i>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>If the host runs in FIPS mode:</p>
                     <codeblock outputclass="language-txt">NSS FIPS 140-2 Certificate DB:<i>&lt;password&gt;</i>
                     </codeblock>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Set secure permissions on the <codeph>/etc/ipsec.d/nsspassword</codeph> file:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>chmod 600 /etc/ipsec.d/nsspassword</b>
# <b>chown root:root /etc/ipsec.d/nsspassword</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Restart the <codeph>ipsec</codeph> service:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl restart ipsec</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>Verify that the <codeph>ipsec</codeph> service is running:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>systemctl is-active ipsec</b>
               </codeblock>
               <p>If the command returns <codeph>active</codeph>, the service successfully uses the password file to unlock the NSS database.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>Perform an action on the NSS database that requires the password. For example, display the private keys:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>certutil -K -d /var/lib/ipsec/nss/</b>
certutil: Checking token "NSS Certificate DB" in slot "NSS User Private Key and Certificate Services"
Enter Password or Pin for "NSS Certificate DB":</codeblock>
               <p>Verify that the command prompts for the password.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </result>
   </taskbody>
</task>
