<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ref_supported-wifi-security-types_assembly_managing-wifi-connections">
   <title>Supported wifi security types</title>
   <refbody>
      <section>
         <p>Depending on the security type a wifi network supports, you can transmit data more or less securely.</p>
         <note type="attention">
            <p>Do not connect to wifi networks that do not use encryption or which support only the insecure WEP or WPA standards.</p>
         </note>
         <p>RHEL 9 supports the following wifi security types:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>None</codeph>: Encryption is disabled, and data is transferred in plain text over the network.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>Enhanced Open</codeph>: With opportunistic wireless encryption (OWE), devices negotiate unique pairwise master keys (PMK) to encrypt connections in wireless networks without authentication.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>LEAP</codeph>: The Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol, which was developed by Cisco, is a proprietary version of the extensible authentication protocol (EAP).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>WPA &amp; WPA2 Personal</codeph>: In personal mode, the Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) and Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) authentication methods use a pre-shared key.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>WPA &amp; WPA2 Enterprise</codeph>: In enterprise mode, WPA and WPA2 use the EAP framework and authenticate users to a remote authentication dial-in user service (RADIUS) server.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <codeph>WPA3 Personal</codeph>: Wi-Fi Protected Access 3 (WPA3) Personal uses simultaneous authentication of equals (SAE) instead of pre-shared keys (PSK) to prevent dictionary attacks. WPA3 uses perfect forward secrecy (PFS).</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
