<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="switching-to-a-different-network-interface-naming-scheme_consistent-network-interface-device-naming">
   <title>Switching to a different network interface naming scheme</title>
   <taskbody>
      <prereq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>You have access to the console of the server.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </prereq>
      <context>
         <p>By default, (RHEL) uses the <codeph>rhel-9.0</codeph> naming scheme, even if you install or update to a later minor version of RHEL. While the default naming scheme fits in most scenarios, there might be reasons to switch to a different scheme version.</p>
         <p>Examples when you must change the naming scheme:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>A new scheme can help to better identify a device if it adds additional attributes, such as a slot number, to an interface name.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>An new scheme can prevent <codeph>udev</codeph> from falling back to the kernel-assigned device names (<codeph>eth*</codeph>). This happens if the driver does not provide enough unique attributes for two or more interfaces to generate unique names for them.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </context>
      <steps>
         <step>
            <cmd>List the network interfaces:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>ip link show</b>
2: eno1: &lt;BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP&gt; mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:00:5e:00:53:1a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
...</codeblock>
               <p>Record the MAC addresses of the interfaces.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Optional: Display the <codeph>ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME</codeph> property of a network interface to identify the naming scheme that RHEL currently uses:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>udevadm info --query=property --property=ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME /sys/class/net/eno1</b>
ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME=rhel-9.0</codeblock>
               <p>Note that the property is not available on the <codeph>lo</codeph> loopback device.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Append the <codeph>net.naming-scheme=<i>&lt;scheme&gt;</i>
               </codeph> option to the command line of all installed kernels, for example:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>grubby --update-kernel=ALL --args=net.naming-scheme=<i>rhel-9.4</i>
                  </b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Reboot the system.</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>reboot</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Based on the MAC addresses you recorded, identify the new names of network interfaces that have changed due to the different naming scheme:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>ip link show</b>
2: eno1np0: &lt;BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP&gt; mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:00:5e:00:53:1a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
...</codeblock>
               <p>After switching the scheme, <codeph>udev</codeph> names the device with the specified MAC address <codeph>eno1np0</codeph>, whereas it was named <codeph>eno1</codeph> before.</p>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Identify which NetworkManager connection profile uses an interface with the previous name:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli -f device,name connection show</b>
DEVICE  NAME
eno1  example_profile
...</codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Set the <codeph>connection.interface-name</codeph> property in the connection profile to the new interface name:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection modify example_profile connection.interface-name "eno1np0"</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step>
            <cmd>Reactivate the connection profile:</cmd>
            <info>
               <codeblock># <b>nmcli connection up example_profile</b>
               </codeblock>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
      <result>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Identify the naming scheme that RHEL now uses by displaying the <codeph>ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME</codeph> property of a network interface:</p>
               <codeblock># <b>udevadm info --query=property --property=ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME /sys/class/net/eno1np0</b>
ID_NET_NAMING_SCHEME=_rhel-9.4</codeblock>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </result>
      <postreq>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="#network-interface-naming-schemes_consistent-network-interface-device-naming">Network interface naming schemes</xref>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </postreq>
   </taskbody>
</task>
